##Using LLMs to Generate Traffic Datasets for Cellular Networks

This repository contains the datasets, prompt templates, analysis scripts, and evaluation results used in the thesis **"Using LLMs to Generate Traffic Datasets for Cellular Networks"**.

The purpose of the study was to investigate whether Large Language Models can be used to generate synthetic cellular network traffic datasets and how different prompt engineering strategies influence the quality of the generated data. The generated datasets were evaluated with respect to structural quality, realism, and diversity.

This repository contains generated datasets for all four prompting strategies: Basic Prompting, Constraint-Based Prompting, Chain-of-Thought Prompting, and Few-Shot Prompting. And each prompting strategy contains ten generation runs.Apart from that it also includes the prompt templates used during dataset generation, the Python scripts used for the evaluation process, and the result files generated by the analysis scripts.

### Results Summary
Results showed that all prompting strategies were able to generate structured cellular network traffic datasets without missing values, duplicate rows, invalid values, or formatting errors. However, differences were observed between the prompting strategies. Constraint-Based and Few-Shot prompting generated datasets that were more realistic when compared to the real-world reference dataset and also produced greater variation in throughput and latency values than Basic and Chain-of-Thought prompting.



*The Glasgow Public and Private 5G Performance Dataset* was used as the real-world reference dataset during evaluation. The dataset is not redistributed in this repository and should instead be obtained from its original source:

Hart, A. (2025). Glasgow 5G Performance Dataset [Data set]. University of the West of Scotland, Paisley, UK. 
https://github.com/AhrenHart/Glasgow5GDataset2025 For questions, contact Ahren Hart at Ahren.hart@uws.ac.uk.

To reproduce the analysis presented in the thesis, run the provided Python scripts located in the analysis folder. The generated evaluation results will be stored in the results folder. And thiss repository is provided to support future research related to synthetic cellular network traffic generation using Large Language Models.


**If you use material from this repository, please cite:
Zahra Faysal
Using LLMs to Generate Traffic Datasets for Cellular Networks
Bachelor Thesis
Mälardalen University
2026**



